5.3.4 Reports of Human Pharmacodynamic (PD) Studies
Reports of studies with a primary objective of determining the PD effects of a drug product in
humans should be placed in this section. Reports of studies whose primary objective is to
establish efficacy or to accumulate safety data, however, should be placed in Section 5.3.5.
This section should include reports of 1) studies of pharmacologic properties known or
thought to be related to the desired clinical effects (biomarkers), 2) short-term studies of the
main clinical effect, and 3) PD studies of other properties not related to the desired clinical
effect. Because a quantitative relationship of these pharmacological effects to dose and/or
plasma drug and metabolite concentrations is usually of interest, PD information is frequently
collected in dose response studies or together with drug concentration information in PK
studies (concentration-response or PK/PD studies). Relationships between PK and PD effects
that are not obtained in well-controlled studies are often evaluated using an appropriate model
and used as a basis for designing further dose-response studies or, in some cases, for
interpreting effects of concentration differences in population subsets.
Dose-finding, PD and/or PK-PD studies can be conducted in healthy subjects and/or patients,
and can also be incorporated into the studies that evaluate safety and efficacy in a clinical
indication. Reports of dose-finding, PD and/or PK/PD studies conducted in healthy subjects
should be placed in Section 5.3.4.1, and the reports for those studies conducted in patients
should be placed in Section 5.3.4.2.
In some cases, the short-term PD, dose-finding, and/or PK-PD information found in
pharmacodynamic studies conducted in patients will provide data that contribute to
assessment of efficacy, either because they show an effect on an acceptable surrogate marker
(e.g., blood pressure) or on a clinical benefit endpoint (e.g., pain relief). Similarly, a PD
study may contain important clinical safety information. When these studies are part of the
efficacy or safety demonstration, they are considered clinical efficacy and safety studies that
should be included in Section 5.3.5, not in Section 5.3.4.
5.3.4.1 Healthy Subject PD and PK/PD Study Reports
PD and/or PK/PD studies having non-therapeutic objectives in healthy subjects should be
placed in this section
5.3.4.2 Patient PD and PK/PD Study Reports
PD and/or PK/PD studies in patients should be submitted in this section.

