5.3.5 Reports of Efficacy and Safety Studies
This section should include reports of all clinical studies of efficacy and/or safety carried out
with the drug, conducted by the sponsor, or otherwise available, including all completed and
all ongoing studies of the drug in proposed and non-proposed indications. The study reports
should provide the level of detail appropriate to the study and its role in the application. ICH
E3 describes the contents of a full report for a study contributing evidence pertinent to both
safety and efficacy. Abbreviated reports can be provided for some studies (see ICH E3 and
individual guidance by region).
Within Section 5.3.5, studies should be organised by design (controlled, uncontrolled) and,
within controlled studies, by type of control. Within each section, studies should be
categorized further, ordered by whether the study report is complete or abbreviated (ICH E3),
with completely reported studies presented first. Published reports with limited or no further
data available to the sponsor should be placed last in this section.
51
The Common Technical Document – Efficacy
In cases where the application includes multiple therapeutic indications, the reports should be
organized in a separate Section 5.3.5 for each indication. In such cases, if a clinical efficacy
study is relevant to only one of the indications included in the application, it should be
included in the appropriate Section 5.3.5; if a clinical efficacy study is relevant to multiple
indications, the study report should be included in the most appropriate Section 5.3.5 and
referenced as necessary in other Sections 5.3.5, e.g., Section 5.3.5A, Section 5.3.5B.
5.3.5.1 Study Reports of Controlled Clinical Studies Pertinent to the Claimed
Indication
The controlled clinical study reports should be sequenced by type of control:
• Placebo control (could include other control groups, such as an active comparator or other
doses)
• No-treatment control
• Dose-response (without placebo)
• Active control (without placebo)
• External (Historical) control, regardless of the control treatment
Within each control type, where relevant to assessment of drug effect, studies should be
organized by treatment duration. Studies of indications other than the one proposed in the
application, but that provide support for efficacy in the proposed use, should be included in
Section 5.3.5.1.
Where a pharmacodynamic study contributes to evidence of efficacy, it should be included in
Section 5.3.5.1. The sequence in which studies were conducted is not considered pertinent to
their presentation. Thus, placebo-controlled trials, whether early or late, should be placed in
Section 5.3.5.1. Controlled safety studies, including studies in conditions that are not the
subject of the application, should also be reported in Section 5.3.5.1.
5.3.5.2 Study Reports of Uncontrolled Clinical Studies
Study reports of uncontrolled clinical studies (e.g., reports of open label safety studies) should
be included in Section 5.3.5.2. This includes studies in conditions that are not the subject of
the marketing application.
5.3.5.3 Reports of Analyses of Data from More than One Study
Many clinical issues in an application can be addressed by an analysis considering data from
more than one study. The results of such an analysis should generally be summarized in the
clinical summary documents, but a detailed description and presentation of the results of such
analyses are considered critical to their interpretation. Where the details of the analysis are
too extensive to be reported in a summary document, they should be presented in a separate
report. Such reports should be placed in Section 5.3.5.3. Examples of reports that would be
found in this section include: a report of a formal meta-analysis or extensive exploratory
analysis of efficacy to determine an overall estimate of effect size in all patients and/or in
specific subpopulations, and a report of an integrated analysis of safety that assesses such
factors as the adequacy of the safety database, estimates of event rates, and safety with respect
to variables such as dose, demographics, and concomitant medications. A report of a detailed
analysis of bridging, considering formal bridging studies, other relevant clinical studies, and
other appropriate information (e.g., PK and PD information), should be placed in this section
if the analysis is too lengthy for inclusion in the Clinical Summary.
52
The Common Technical Document – Efficacy
5.3.5.4 Other Study Reports
This section can include:
– Reports of interim analyses of studies pertinent to the claimed indications
– Reports of controlled safety studies not reported elsewhere
– Reports of controlled or uncontrolled studies not related to the claimed indication
– Published reports of clinical experiences with the medicinal product that are not included
in Section 5.3.5.1. However, when literature is important to the demonstration or
substantiation of efficacy, it should be included in Section 5.3.5.1
– Reports of ongoing studies

