5.3.3 Reports of Human Pharmacokinetic (PK) Studies
Assessment of the PK of a drug in healthy subjects and/or patients is considered critical to
designing dosing strategies and titration steps, to anticipating the effects of concomitant drug
use, and to interpreting observed pharmacodynamic differences. These assessments should
provide a description of the body's handling of a drug over time, focusing on maximum
plasma concentrations (peak exposure), area-under-curve (total exposure), clearance, and
accumulation of the parent drug and its metabolite(s), in particular those that have
pharmacological activity.
49
The Common Technical Document – Efficacy
The PK studies whose reports should be included in Sections 5.3.3.1 and 5.3.3.2 are generally
designed to (1) measure plasma drug and metabolite concentrations over time, (2) measure
drug and metabolite concentrations in urine or faeces when useful or necessary, and/or (3)
measure drug and metabolite binding to protein or red blood cells.
On occasion, PK studies may include measurement of drug distribution into other body
tissues, body organs, or fluids (e.g., synovial fluid or cerebrospinal fluid), and the results of
these tissue distribution studies should be included in Section 5.3.3.1 to 5.3.3.2, as
appropriate. These studies should characterise the drug's PK and provide information about
the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of a drug and any active metabolites in
healthy subjects and/or patients. Studies of mass balance and changes in PK related to dose
(e.g., determination of dose proportionality) or time (e.g., due to enzyme induction or
formation of antibodies) are of particular interest and should be included in Sections 5.3.3.1
and/or 5.3.3.2. Apart from describing mean PK in normal and patient volunteers, PK studies
should also describe the range of individual variability. In the ICH E5 guideline on Ethnic
Factors in the Acceptance of Foreign Data, factors that may result in different responses to a
drug in different populations are categorised as intrinsic ethnic factors or extrinsic ethnic
factors. In this document, these categories are referred to as intrinsic factors and extrinsic
factors, respectively. Additional studies can also assess differences in systemic exposure as a
result of changes in PK due to intrinsic (e.g., age, gender, racial, weight, height, disease,
genetic polymorphism, and organ dysfunction) and extrinsic (e.g., drug-drug interactions,
diet, smoking, and alcohol use) factors. Reports of PK studies examining the influence of
intrinsic and extrinsic factors on exposure should be organised in Sections 5.3.3.3 and 5.3.3.4,
respectively.
In addition to standard multiple-sample PK studies, population PK analyses based on sparse
sampling during clinical studies can also address questions about the contributions of intrinsic
and extrinsic factors to the variability in the dose-PK-response relationship. Because the
methods used in population PK studies are substantially different from those used in standard
PK studies, these studies should be placed in Section 5.3.3.5.
5.3.3.1 Healthy Subject PK and Initial Tolerability Study Reports
Reports of PK and initial tolerability studies in healthy subjects should be placed in this
section.
5.3.3.2 Patient PK and Initial Tolerability Study Reports
Reports of PK and initial tolerability studies in patients should be placed in this section.
5.3.3.3 Intrinsic Factor PK Study Reports
Reports of PK studies to assess effects of intrinsic factors, should be placed in this section.
5.3.3.4 Extrinsic Factor PK Study Reports
Reports of PK studies to assess effects of extrinsic factors, should be placed in this section.
5.3.3.5 Population PK Study Reports
Reports of population PK studies based on sparse samples obtained in clinical trials including
efficacy and safety trials, should be placed in this section.

