2.7.4.1 Exposure to the Drug
2.7.4.1.1 Overall Safety Evaluation Plan and Narratives of Safety Studies
The overall safety evaluation plan should be described briefly, including special
considerations and observations concerning the nonclinical data, any relevant pharmacological
class effects, and the sources of the safety data (controlled trials, open studies, etc). A tabular
listing of all clinical studies that provided safety data, grouped appropriately, should generally
be provided (see the section 2.7.4.7 Appendix). In addition to studies that evaluated efficacy
and safety, and uncontrolled studies that generate safety information, this section includes
studies that consider special safety issues. Examples would include studies to compare
particular adverse event rates for two therapies, to assess safety in particular demographic
subsets, to evaluate withdrawal or rebound phenomena, or to evaluate particular adverse
events (e.g., sedation, sexual function, effects on driving, absence of a class adverse effect).
Studies in indications for which approval is not being sought in the current application and
ongoing studies would also be included here if they contribute to the safety analysis.
Narrative descriptions of these studies should be provided here, except that narrative
descriptions for studies that contributed both efficacy and safety data should be included in
Section 2.7.3.2 and cross-referenced here. The narratives should provide enough detail to
allow the reviewer to understand the exposure of study subjects to the test drug or control
agent, and how safety data were collected (including the methods used and the extent of safety
monitoring of the subjects enrolled in the individual studies). If some studies are not analysed
separately but are grouped for safety analysis, that should be noted, and a single narrative
description can be provided.
2.7.4.1.2 Overall Extent of Exposure
A table (see example provided in the section 2.7.4.7 Appendix) and appropriate text should be
generated to summarise the overall extent of drug exposure from all phases of the clinical
study development programme. The table should indicate the numbers of subjects exposed in
studies of different types and at various doses, routes, and durations. If a large number of
different doses and/or durations of exposure were used, these can be grouped in a manner
appropriate for the drug. Thus, for any dose or range of doses, duration of exposure can be
summarised by the number of subjects exposed for specific periods of time, such as 1 day or
less, 2 days to 1 week, 1 week to 1 month, 1 month to 6 months, 6 months to 1 year, more
than 1 year (ICH E3). In some applications it may be important to identify diagnostic
subgroups and/or groups receiving specific concomitant therapies deemed particularly
relevant to safety assessment in the intended use.
The dose levels used for each subject in this presentation could be the maximum dose
received by that subject, the dose with longest exposure, and/or the mean daily dose, as
appropriate. In some cases, cumulative dose may be pertinent. Dosage may be given as the
actual daily dose or on a mg/kg or mg/m2 basis, as appropriate. If available, drug
concentration data (e.g., concentration at the time of an adverse event, maximum plasma
concentration, area under curve) may be helpful in individual subjects for correlation with
adverse events or changes in laboratory variables.
It is assumed that all subjects who were enrolled and received at least one dose of the
treatment are included in the safety analysis; if that is not so, an explanation should be
provided. 

2.7.4.1.3 Demographic and Other Characteristics of Study Population
A summary table should provide the reader with an overview of the demographic
characteristics (Table 2.7.4.2) of the population that was exposed to the therapeutic agent
during its development. Choice of age ranges used should take into account considerations
discussed in ICH E7 [Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics] and ICH E11
[Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products in the Paediatric Population]. If the relative
exposure of demographic groups in the controlled trials differed from overall exposure, it may
be useful to provide separate tables.
In addition, one or more tables should show the relevant characteristics of the study
population, and the numbers of subjects with special characteristics. Such characteristics
could include:
– Severity of disease
– Hospitalisation
– Impaired renal function
– Concomitant illnesses
– Concomitant use of particular medications
– Geographical location
If these characteristics are distributed differently in controlled trials versus the overall
database, it will generally be useful to present tables on both groupings.
The text accompanying the table(s) should mention any imbalance(s) between the drug and
placebo and/or comparator regarding any of the above demographic characteristics,
particularly if they could lead to differences in safety outcomes.
If certain subjects were excluded from studies (concomitant illness, severity of illness,
concomitant medications), this fact should be noted.
Separate demographic tables should be provided for every indication, although closely related
indications can be considered together, if study subject characteristics are such that risks are
believed to be the same.

