2.7.3.3 Comparison and Analyses of Results Across Studies
Using text, figures, and tables as appropriate (see the section 2.7.3.6 Appendix), the
subsections of 2.7.3.3 should summarise all available data that characterise the efficacy of the
drug. This summary should include analyses of all data, irrespective of their support for the
overall conclusion and should, therefore, discuss the extent to which the results of the relevant
studies do or do not reinforce each other. Any major inconsistencies in the data regarding
efficacy should be addressed and any areas needing further exploration should be identified.
The section will generally utilise two kinds of analyses: comparison of results of individual
studies, and analysis of data combined from various studies. Details of analyses that are too
extensive to be reported in a summary document should be presented in a separate report, to
be placed in Module 5, Section 5.3.5.3.
This section should also cross-reference important evidence from section 2.7.2, such as data
that support the dosage and administration section of the labelling. These data include dosage
and dose interval recommended, evidence pertinent to individualisation of dosage and need
for modifications of dosage for specific subgroups (e.g., paediatric or geriatric subjects, or
subjects with hepatic or renal impairment), and data relevant to dose-response or
concentration response (PK/PD) relationships.
2.7.3.3.1 Study Populations
The demographic and other baseline characteristics of patients across all efficacy studies
should be described. The following should be included:
• the characteristics of the disease (e.g., severity, duration) and prior treatment in the study
subjects, and study inclusion/exclusion criteria
• differences in baseline characteristics of the study populations in different studies or
groups of studies.
• any differences between populations included in critical efficacy analyses and the overall
patient population that would be expected to receive the drug when it is marketed should
be noted.

 assessment of the number of patients who dropped out of the studies, time of withdrawal
(a defined study day or visit during treatment or follow up period), and reasons for
discontinuation.
Tabular presentations that combine and compare study populations across studies may be
useful.
2.7.3.3.2 Comparison of Efficacy Results of all Studies
The results of any bridging studies using clinical endpoints, i.e., certain studies used to
evaluate the ability to extrapolate certain types of foreign clinical data to the new region (see
ICH E5), should be summarised in this section. An analysis of the similarity of efficacy in
subjects between regions, as well as any other information that may support extrapolation of
the efficacy data to the new region, should be summarised here. An independent subsection
can be created to summarize these kinds of data.
The results from all studies designed to evaluate the drug's efficacy should be summarised
and compared, including studies with inconclusive or negative results. Important differences
in study design such as endpoints, control group, study duration, statistical methods, patient
population, and dose should be identified.
Comparisons of results across studies should focus on pre-specified primary endpoints.
However, when the primary endpoints involved different variables or time points in different
efficacy studies, it may be useful to provide cross-study comparisons of important data
elements that were obtained in all studies. If results over time are important, results of studies
may be displayed in a figure that illustrates the change over time in each study.
Confidence intervals for treatment effects should be given to aid in the interpretation of point
estimates. If differences are shown between placebo and test drugs in the change from
baseline, the baseline values and the magnitude of effect in all treatment groups, including
placebo and active controls (if used), should generally be presented in the table or in text
accompanying a figure. If the objective of an active control trial was to show equivalence or
non-inferiority, the difference or the ratio of outcomes between treatments should be given
with the confidence interval. The results should be evaluated by using the predefined criteria
for defining equivalence or non-inferiority and the rationale for the criteria and support for the
determination that the study (studies) had assay sensitivity should be provided (see ICH E10).
Important differences in outcomes between studies with a similar design should be delineated
and discussed. Cross-study comparisons of factors that may have contributed to differences in
outcomes should be described.
If a meta-analysis of the clinical studies is performed, it should be clear whether this analysis
is conducted according to a predefined protocol or is a post hoc exercise. Any differences in
trial designs or populations, or in efficacy measurements between trials should be described to
allow assessment of the relevance and validity of the results and conclusions (See ICH E9). A
detailed description of the methodology and results of the meta-analysis should generally be
submitted in a separate report (section 5.3.5.3 of Module 5).
2.7.3.3.3 Comparison of Results in Sub-populations
The results of individual studies or overview analyses of efficacy in specific populations
should be summarised in this section. The purpose of these comparisons should be to show
whether the claimed treatment effects are observed consistently across all relevant subpopulations, especially those where there are special reasons for concern. The comparisons
may highlight apparent variations in efficacy that require further investigation and discussion. 

The limitations of such analyses, however, should be recognised (ICH E9), and it is important
to note that their purpose is not to provide the basis for specific claims, nor to attempt to
improve the evidence of efficacy in situations where the overall results are disappointing.
Given the limited sample sizes in individual studies, analyses across multiple studies should
be performed to evaluate effects of major demographic factors (age, sex, and race) and of
other predefined or relevant intrinsic and extrinsic factors (e.g., disease severity, prior
treatment, concomitant illness, concomitant drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and body weight) on
efficacy. Factors of special interest may arise from general concerns (e.g., the elderly) or from
specific issues that are related to the pharmacology of the drug or that have arisen during
earlier drug development. Efficacy in the paediatric population should be routinely analysed in
applications for a proposed indication that occurs in children. Depending on the data set, if
extensive, detailed efficacy analyses are performed, they can be placed in Module 5, with the
results of those analyses reported here.

