2.7.2.3 Comparison and Analyses of Results Across Studies
This section should use the results of all in vitro human biomaterial studies and PK, PD and
PK/PD studies to characterise the PK, PD and PK/PD relationships of the drug. Results
related to the inter- and intra-individual variability in these data and the intrinsic and extrinsic
factors affecting these pharmacokinetic relationships should be discussed.
This section (typically with the use of text and tables) should provide a factual presentation of
all data across studies pertinent to the following:
• in vitro drug metabolism and in vitro drug-drug interaction studies and their clinical
implications.
• human PK studies, including the best estimates of standard parameters and sources of
variability. The focus should be on evidence supporting dose and dose individualisation in
the target patient population and in special populations, e.g., paediatric or geriatric
patients, or patients with renal or hepatic impairment.
• comparison between single and repeated-dose PK
• population PK analyses, such as results based on sparse sampling across studies that
address inter-individual variations in the PK or PD of the active drug substances that may
be due to extrinsic or intrinsic factors.
• dose-response or concentration-response relationships. This discussion should highlight
evidence to support the selection of dosages and dose intervals studied in the important
clinical trials. In addition, information that supports the dosage instructions in the
proposed labelling should be discussed in Section 2.7.3.4.
• major inconsistencies in the human biomaterial, PK, or PD database.
• PK studies that were performed to determine whether foreign clinical data could be
extrapolated to the new region (see ICH E5). The result of the studies and analysis of the
similarity of the PK data between regions or races should be summarised in this section.
Such studies that use PD biomarkers (but do not evaluate clinical efficacy) may similarly
be summarised here. An independent subsection can be created to summarise these kinds
of data

