2.7.4.2 Adverse Events
2.7.4.2.1 Analysis of Adverse Events
Data on the frequency of adverse events should be described in text and tables. Text should
appear in the appropriate subsections of Section 2.7.4.2.1 and the tables that are not embedded
in the text should be placed in the section 2.7.4.7 Appendix.
All adverse events occurring or worsening after treatment has begun ("treatment emergent
signs and symptoms," those adverse events not seen at baseline and those that worsened even
if present at baseline) should be summarised in tables listing each event, the number of
subjects in whom the event occurred and the frequency of occurrence in subjects treated with
the drug under investigation, with comparator drugs, and with placebo. Such tables could also
present results for each dose and could be modified to show, e.g., adverse event rates by
severity, by time from onset of therapy, or by assessment of causality.
When most of the relevant safety data are derived from a small number of studies (e.g., one or
two studies), or when very different study subject populations were enrolled in the studies that
were performed, presentation of data by study will often be appropriate. When the relevant 

exposure data is not concentrated in a small number of studies, however, grouping the studies
and pooling the results to improve precision of estimates and sensitivity to differences should
generally be considered.
While often useful, pooling of safety data across studies should be approached with caution
because in some cases interpretation can be difficult, and it can obscure real differences. In
cases where differences are apparent, it is more appropriate to present the data by study. The
following issues should be considered:
• it is most appropriate to combine data from studies that are of similar design, e.g.,
similar in dose, duration, methods of determining adverse events, and population.
• if the incidence for a particular adverse event differs substantially across the
individual studies in a pool, the pooled estimate is less informative.
• any study with an unusual adverse event pattern should be presented separately.
• the appropriate extent of analysis depends on the seriousness of the adverse event
and the strength of evidence of drug causation. Differences in rates of drugrelated, serious events or events leading to discontinuation or dosage change
deserve more investigation, whereas rates of other adverse events do not merit
elaborate analysis.
• examination of which subjects experience extreme laboratory value abnormalities
("outliers") may be useful in identifying subgroups of individuals who are at
particular risk for certain adverse events.
Groups of studies that could be used in pooled safety analyses include:
• all controlled studies or subsets of controlled studies, such as all placebocontrolled studies, studies with any positive control, studies with a particular
positive control, or studies of particular indications (and thus carried out in
different populations). These groupings are considered the best source of
information about the more common adverse events and can distinguish drugrelated events from spontaneous events. Rates in control and treatment groups
should be compared.
• all studies, excluding short-term studies in healthy subjects.
This grouping is most useful for evaluating rarer events.
• all studies using a particular dose route or regimen, or a particular concomitant
therapy.
• studies in which adverse event reports are elicited by checklist or direct
questioning, or studies in which events are volunteered.
• pools of studies by region.
It is almost always useful to carry out the first two groupings; the others chosen would vary
from drug to drug and should be influenced by inspection of individual study results.
Whatever methods are used, it should be recognised that, as for results of single studies, any
numerical rate is often only a rough approximation of reality.
When a decision is made to pool data from several studies, the rationale for selecting the
method used for pooling should be described. It is common to combine the numerator events
and the denominators for the selected studies. Other methods for pooling results across studies 

are available, e.g., weighting data from studies on the basis of study size or inversely to their
variance.
If substantial differences are seen between clinical trials in the rates of adverse events, these
differences should be noted and possible reasons should be discussed (e.g., relevant
differences in study populations, in dose administration, or in methods of collecting adverse
event data).
Adverse events should be described as shown in the individual study report (ICH E3). In
combining data from many studies, it is important to use standardised terms to describe events
and collect synonymous terms under a single preferred term. This can be done with a standard
dictionary, and the MedDRA terminology (ICH M1 guideline) should be used. Until
MedDRA can be fully implemented, other dictionaries can be used, but should be specified.
Frequencies should be presented for preferred terms and for appropriately defined groupings.
Examination of which adverse events led to change in therapy (discontinuation of drug use,
change in dose, need for added therapy) can help in assessing the clinical importance of
adverse events. These rates can be added to the adverse event rate tables, or can be presented
in separate tables. Overall discontinuation rates by study may be useful but it is also important
to specify the particular adverse events leading to discontinuation in a separate table. The
preferred terms should be grouped by body system and arranged by decreasing frequency.
2.7.4.2.1.1 Common Adverse Events
Tabular displays of adverse event rates (see the section 2.7.4.7 Appendix) should be
used to compare rates in treatment and control groups. For this analysis it may be
helpful to combine the event severity categories and the causality categories, if they
are used, leading to a simpler side-by-side comparison of treatment groups. It should
be noted that while causality categories may be reported, if used, the presentation of
the data should include total adverse events (whether deemed related or unrelated to
treatment); evaluations of causality are inherently subjective and may exclude
unexpected adverse events that are in fact treatment related. Additionally,
comparisons of rates of adverse events between treatment and control groups in
individual trials should be summarised here. It is often useful to tabulate rates in
selected trials (see example table 2.7.4.4, in the Section 2.7.4.7 Appendix).
It is usually useful to examine more closely the more common adverse events that
seem to be drug related (e.g., those that show that a dose response and/or a clear
difference between drug and placebo rates) for relationship to relevant factors,
including:
- dosage;
- mg/kg or mg/m2 dose;
- dose regimen;
- duration of treatment;
- total dose;
- demographic characteristics such as age, sex, race;
- concomitant medication use;
- other baseline features such as renal status;
- efficacy outcomes; 

- drug concentration, where available.
It may also be useful to summarise the results of examination of time of onset and
duration for these drug-related events.
Rigorous statistical evaluations of the possible relationship of specific adverse events
to each of the above factors are often unnecessary. It may be apparent from initial
display and inspection of the data that there is no evidence of a significant relationship
to demographic or other baseline features. In that case, no further analysis of these
particular factors is needed. Further, it is not necessary that all such analyses be
presented in this report. When the safety analyses are too extensive to be presented in
detail in this report, they may be presented in a separate report in Module 5, section
5.3.5.3, and summarised here.
Under certain circumstances, life table or similar analyses may be more informative
than reporting of crude adverse event rates.
2.7.4.2.1.2 Deaths
A table in the Section 2.7.4.7 Appendix should list all deaths occurring while on study
(including deaths that occurred shortly following treatment termination, e.g., within 30
days or as specified in the study protocol, as well as all other deaths that occurred later
but may have resulted from a process that began during studies). Only deaths that are
clearly disease-related per protocol definitions and not related to the investigational
product, either in studies of conditions with high mortality such as advanced cancer or
in studies where mortality from disease is a primary study endpoint, should be
excepted from this listing (it is assumed, however, that these deaths would still be
reported in the individual ICH E3 study reports). Even these deaths should be
examined for any unexpected patterns between study arms, and further analysed if
unexplained differences are observed. Deaths should be examined individually and
analysed on the basis of rates in individual trials and appropriate pools of trials,
considering both total mortality and cause-specific deaths. Potential relationships to
the factors listed in Section 2.7.4.2.1.1 should also be considered. Although causespecific mortality can be difficult to determine, some deaths are relatively easy to
interpret. Thus deaths due to causes expected in the patient population (heart attacks
and sudden death in an angina population) are individually not considered to be
informative, but even one death due to a QT interval prolongation-associated
arrhythmia, aplastic anaemia, or liver injury may be informative. Special caution is
appropriate before an unusual death is attributed to concomitant illness.
2.7.4.2.1.3 Other Serious Adverse Events
Summaries of all serious adverse events (other than death but including the serious
adverse events temporally associated with or preceding the deaths) should be
displayed. Serious adverse events that occurred after the drug use was discontinued
should be included in this section. The display should include major laboratory
abnormalities, abnormal vital signs, and abnormal physical observations that are
considered serious adverse events using the ICH E2A definitions. Results of analyses
or assessments of serious adverse events across studies should be presented. Serious
events should be examined for frequency over time, particularly for drugs that may be
used chronically. Potential relationships to the factors listed in Section 2.7.4.2.1.1
should also be considered.
2.7.4.2.1.4 Other Significant Adverse Events 

Marked haematologic and other laboratory abnormalities (other than those meeting the
definition of serious) and any events that led to a substantial intervention (premature
discontinuation of study drug, dose reduction, or substantial additional concomitant
therapy), other than those reported as serious adverse events, should be displayed.
Events that led to premature discontinuation of study drug represent an important
safety concern and deserve particular attention in the analysis of drug safety for two
reasons. First, even for expected events (based on pharmacologic activity), the need to
discontinue (or otherwise alter) treatment reflects the severity and perceived
importance of the event to patient and physician. Second, discontinuation may
represent a drug-related event not yet recognised as drug related. Adverse events
leading to treatment discontinuation should be considered possibly drug-related even if
this was not recognised initially and even if the event was thought to represent
intercurrent illness. Reasons for premature treatment discontinuations should be
discussed and rates of discontinuations should be compared across studies and
compared with those for placebo and/or active control treatment. In addition, the study
data should be examined for any potential relationships to the factors listed in Section
2.7.4.2.1.1.
2.7.4.2.1.5 Analysis of Adverse Events by Organ System or Syndrome
Assessment of the causality of, and risk factors for, deaths, other serious events, and
other significant events is often complicated by the fact that they are uncommon. As a
result, consideration of related events as a group, including less important events of
potentially related pathophysiology, may be of critical value in understanding the
safety profile. For example, the relationship to treatment of an isolated sudden death
may become much clearer when considered in the context of cases of syncope,
palpitations, and asymptomatic arrhythmias.
It is thus generally useful to summarise adverse events by organ system so that they
may be considered in the context of potentially related events including laboratory
abnormalities. Such presentations of adverse events by organ system should be placed
in subsections of section 2.7.4.2.1.5, labelled as 2.7.4.2.1.5.1, 2.7.4.2.1.5.2, etc., and
titled by the organ system under consideration. The list of organ systems to be
addressed and the approach to grouping certain events should be selected as
appropriate to best present the adverse event data for the medicinal product. If some
adverse events tend to occur in syndromes (e.g., influenza-like syndrome, cytokine
release syndrome), the sponsor may choose to create some subsections of 2.7.4.2.1.5
for syndromes rather than organ systems.
The same data and summarisations should generally not be repeated in more than one
subsection of Section 2.7.4.2.1. Instead, a summary presentation may be placed in one
subsection and cross-referenced as needed in the other.
2.7.4.2.2 Narratives
The locations in the application of individual narratives of patient deaths, other serious
adverse events, and other significant adverse events deemed to be of special interest because
of clinical importance (as described in ICH E3 individual study reports) should be referenced
here for the convenience of the reviewer. The narratives themselves should be a part of the
individual study reports, if there is such a report. In cases where there is no individual study
report (e.g., if many open studies are pooled as part of a safety analysis and are not
individually described), narratives can be placed in Module 5, Section 5.3.5.3. Narratives 
should not be included here, unless an abbreviated narrative of particular events is considered
critical to the summary assessment of the drug.

