2.7.2.5 Appendix
Tables and figures should be embedded in the text of the appropriate sections when that
enhances the readability of the document. Lengthy tables can be provided in the appendix at
the end of the Section.
Table 2.7.2.1 is provided as an example of a tabular format for reporting information and
results related to pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction studies. Similar tables could be
prepared for PK/PD studies, dose-response studies, studies of effects on human biomaterials,

and population PK studies. This table is not intended to be a template, but only to illustrate
the type of information that should be considered by sponsors in designing their own tables.
Applicants should also decide whether information and results from clinical pharmacology
studies are best presented in tables, text or figures in order to aid clarity. If, for example,
results are best presented in text and figures, the tables might simply list the studies.
In designing tables, if any, for various types of other clinical pharmacology studies such as
those listed below, applicants should consider including the following types of information.
These examples are for illustrative purposes only and the sponsor should decide which
information needs to be presented.
• metabolism studies using human biomaterials: biomaterials used (e.g., microsomes,
hepatocytes), probe drugs, enzymatic pathways and % contribution and relevant kinetic
parameters (e.g., Vmax, Km).
• in vitro studies of drug-drug interactions using human biomaterials: for studies of other
drugs inhibiting the new drug, the metabolite(s) inhibited, enzymatic pathways affected,
range of inhibitor concentrations used, IC50 and Ki values and proposed mechanism of
inhibition should be included. For studies of the new drug inhibiting other drugs, the
drugs and metabolites inhibited should be included, along with the information mentioned
above.
• population PK studies: co-variates studied, number and type of subjects or patients
studied, summary statistical parameters and final estimates of mean (± standard deviation)
PK parameters.

