2.7.4.5 Safety in Special Groups and Situations
2.7.4.5.1 Intrinsic Factors
This section should summarise safety data pertinent to individualising therapy or patient
management on the basis of demographic and other factors defined as "intrinsic ethnic
factors" in ICH E5. These factors include age, sex, height, weight, lean body mass, genetic 
polymorphism, body composition, other illness and organ dysfunction. Safety in the paediatric
population should be routinely analysed in applications for a proposed indication that occurs
in children. Analysis of the impact of such factors on safety outcomes should have been
presented in other sections but should be summarised here, together with pertinent PK or other
information, e.g., in patients with renal or hepatic disease. If a sufficiently large number of
subjects with a given co-morbid condition such as hypertension, heart disease, or diabetes,
was enrolled, analyses should be carried out to assess whether the co-morbid condition
affected the safety of the drug under study. Cross reference should be made to the tables or
description of adverse events when analyses of such sub-groups has been carried out.
2.7.4.5.2 Extrinsic Factors
This section should summarise safety data pertinent to individualising therapy or patient
management on the basis of factors defined as "extrinsic ethnic factors" in ICH E5. These are
factors associated with the patient environment. Examples are the medical environment, use
of other drugs (see 2.7.4.5.3, Drug Interactions), use of tobacco, use of alcohol, and food
habits.
For example, if a potential interaction with alcohol is suggested by the metabolic profile, by
the results of studies, by post-marketing experience, or by information on similar drugs,
information should be provided here.
2.7.4.5.3 Drug Interactions
Studies on potential drug-drug or drug-food interactions should be summarised in the
Summary of Clinical Pharmacology Studies section of the CTD (Section 2.7.2). The potential
impact on safety of such interactions should be summarised here, based on PK, PD, or clinical
observations. Any observed changes in the adverse event profile, changes in blood levels
thought to be associated with risk, or changes in drug effects associated with other therapy
should be presented here.
2.7.4.5.4 Use in Pregnancy and Lactation
Any information on safety of use during pregnancy or breast-feeding that becomes available
during clinical development or from other sources should be summarised here.
2.7.4.5.5 Overdose
All available clinical information relevant to overdose, including signs/symptoms, laboratory
findings, and therapeutic measures/treatments and antidotes (if available) should be
summarised and discussed. Information on the efficacy of specific antidotes and dialysis
should be provided if available.
2.7.4.5.6 Drug Abuse
Any relevant studies/information regarding the investigation of the dependence potential of a
new therapeutic agent in animals and in humans should be summarised and cross-referenced
to the nonclinical summary. Particularly susceptible patient populations should be identified.
2.7.4.5.7 Withdrawal and Rebound
Any information or study results pertinent to rebound effects should be summarised. Events
that occur, or increase in severity, after discontinuation of double-blind or active study
medication should be examined to see if they are the result of withdrawal of the study
medication. Particular emphasis should be given to studies designed to evaluate withdrawal
and/or rebound.

Data concerning tolerance should be summarised under section 2.7.3.5 in the Summary of
Clinical Efficacy.
2.7.4.5.8 Effects on Ability to Drive or Operate Machinery or Impairment of Mental Ability
Safety data related to any impairment in the senses, co-ordination, or other factor that would
result in diminished ability to drive a vehicle or operate machinery or that would impair
mental ability should be summarised. This includes relevant adverse effects reported in safety
monitoring (e.g., drowsiness) and specific studies concerning effects on ability to drive or
operate machinery or impairment of mental ability.

