2.7.4.3 Clinical Laboratory Evaluations
This section should describe changes in patterns of laboratory tests with drug use. Marked
laboratory abnormalities and those that led to a substantial intervention should be reported in
section 2.7.4.2.1.3 or 2.7.4.2.1.4. If these data are also presented in this section, this duplicate
reporting should be made clear for the reviewer. The appropriate evaluations of laboratory
values will in part be determined by the results seen, but, in general, the analyses described
below should be provided. For each analysis, comparison of the treatment and control groups
should be carried out, as appropriate and as compatible with study sizes. In addition, normal
laboratory ranges should be given for each analysis (ICH E3). Where possible, laboratory
values should be provided in standard international units.
A brief overview of the major changes in laboratory values across the clinical studies should
be provided. Laboratory data should include haematology, clinical chemistry, urinalysis and
other data as appropriate. Each parameter at each time over the course of the study (e.g., at
each visit) should be described at the following three levels:
• the central tendency, i.e., the group mean and median values,
• the range of values, and the number of subjects with abnormal values or with abnormal
values of a certain size (e.g. twice the upper limit of normal, 5 times the upper limit;
choices should be explained). When data are pooled from centres with differences in
normal laboratory ranges, the methodology used in pooling should be described. The
analysis of individual subject changes by treatment group can be shown with a variety of
approaches (e.g., shift tables, see ICH E3 for examples).
• individual clinically important abnormalities, including those leading to discontinuations.
The significance of the laboratory changes and the likely relation to the treatment should
be assessed (e.g., by analysis of such features as relationship to dose, relation to drug
concentration, disappearance on continued therapy, positive dechallenge, positive
rechallenge, and the nature of concomitant therapy). Potential relationships to other factors
listed in Section 2.7.4.2.1.1 should also be considered.

