2.7.2.4 Special Studies
This section should include studies that provide special types of data relevant to specific types
of medicinal products. For immunogenicity studies and other studies in which data may
correlate with PK, PD, safety, and/or efficacy data, explanations of such correlations should
be summarised here. Any observed or potential effects on PK, PD, safety and/or efficacy
should be considered in other appropriate sections of the Clinical Summary as well, with
cross-referencing to this section. Human studies that address a specific safety issue should not
be reported here, but instead should be reported in the Summary of Clinical Safety (section
2.7.4).
Example 1: Immunogenicity
For protein products and other products to which specific immunological reactions have been
measured, data regarding immunogenicity should be summarised in this section. For vaccines
or other products intended to induce specific immune reactions, immunogenicity data should
be described in the efficacy section 2.7.3. Assays used should be briefly described and
information about their performance (e.g., sensitivity, specificity, reliability, validity) should
be summarised; the location in the application of detailed information should be crossreferenced.
Data regarding the incidence, titre, timing of onset and duration of antibody responses should
be summarised for each type of antibody assay used (e.g., IgG by ELISA, neutralisation).
Relationships of antibody formation to underlying disease, concomitant medication, dose,
duration, regimen, and formulation should be explored and summarised. For drugs intended
to be given as chronic, continuous therapy, any data on the impact of interruptions of therapy
on antigenicity should be analysed and summarised.
It is particularly important to summarise analyses of potential clinically relevant correlates of
immunogenicity, e.g., to determine the extent to which the presence of antibodies of a
particular type or titer appears to correlate with alterations of PK, changes in PD, loss of
efficacy, loss of adverse event profile, or development of adverse events. Particular attention
should be paid to events that might be immunologically mediated (e.g., serum sickness) and
events that might result from binding of cross-reactive endogenous substances by antibodies
to the administered drug.
Example 2: Clinical microbiology
For antimicrobial or antiviral medicinal products, in vitro studies to characterise the spectrum
of activity are an important part of the programme of studies relevant to clinical efficacy.
Clinical efficacy studies that include characterisation of the susceptibility of the clinical
isolates as a part of the efficacy determination should be included in Section 2.7.3, Summary
of Clinical Efficacy. However, studies that evaluate such findings as the pattern of in vitro
susceptibility of strains of bacteria from different parts of the world (not in the context of
clinical efficacy study) would be included here.

