2.7.1.3 Comparison and Analyses of Results Across Studies
This section should provide a factual summary of all in vitro dissolution, BA, and
comparative BA studies carried out with the drug substance or drug product, with particular
attention to differences in results across studies. This overview should typically summarise the
findings in text and tables (see 2.7.1.4 Appendix) and should consider the following:
• evidence of the effects of formulation and manufacturing changes on in vitro dissolution
and BA and conclusions regarding BE. When manufacturing or formulation changes are
made for products containing complex drug substances (e.g., a protein), pharmacokinetic
(PK) studies comparing the product before and after the changes may be performed to
ensure that the PK characteristics have not changed as a result of product changes.
Although such studies are sometimes referred to as BE studies, they generally do not focus
on assessing release of drug substance from drug product. Nonetheless, such studies
should be reported in this section. Note also that PK studies alone may not be sufficient to
assure similarity between such drug products. In many situations, pharmacodynamic (PD)
studies or clinical trials may be necessary. Additionally, depending on the circumstances,
antigenicity data may also be needed. Results of these other types of studies, when they
are needed, should be reported in the appropriate places in the dossier.
• evidence of the extent of food effects on BA and conclusions regarding BE with respect to
meal type or timing of the meal (where appropriate).
• evidence of correlations between in vitro dissolution and BA, including the effects of pH
on dissolution, and conclusions regarding dissolution specifications.
• comparative bioavailability, including BE conclusions, for different dosage form
strengths.

comparative BA of the clinical study formulations (for clinical studies providing
substantial evidence of efficacy) and the formulations to be marketed.
• the source and magnitude of observed inter- and intrasubject variability for each
formulation in a comparative BA study.

